I shall now proceed to apply the markings
to the Oodate women's
single-length kimono.
This is where the pattern is matched and
thread marks are made
at the canvas joints.
First, we begin with the sleeves.
Thread marks are applied in this manner on
the sleeve attachment
side of the sleeve cap.
Fold in half with the right sides together
through the grain of the sleeve cap.
Place the sleeve attachment
side facing towards you.
Fold the other piece in the same way,
with the right sides facing, into two.
Place the left and right sleeves on top of
each other with the cuff
ends facing upwards.
For the sleeve cap, prepare two pieces,
and for the cuff, prepare four pieces.
Lightly secure with a pin.
Trim the underarm seam allowance, but mark
2 centimetres added to the
sleeve length at three points.
Place the ruler at these three points,
perform the perspective cut, and sever.
Marking begins with the bamboo stamp,
adding 0.2 centimetres for seam allowance
to the sleeve length and
noting this at four points.
Cuff measurement: 23 cm.
External dimensions: 23 centimetres.
Mark the seam allowance
of 0.5 cm below the cuff.
Note the cuff allowance
of 0.6 centimetres.
Next, at the sleeve cap, add 0
points and 2 cm to the sleeve width.
Here too, add 0.2 centimetres
to the sleeve width.
At the sleeve attachment point 1, mark
the sleeve width plus 0.3 centimetres.
Below the cuff, mark the sleeve
width plus 0.1 centimetres.
Mark the sleeve width plus 0.1 cm; this
point where the sleeve length and sleeve
width intersect becomes the cross mark.
Mark a diagonal fold line on
the sleeve attachment side.
Sleeve roundness
measurement at cuff, bottom.
and attach to the underarm.
Next, position the curved template
according to the curvature dimensions and
trace the curve using
an investment spatula.
I shall also mark the centre of the curve.